Q.1A.What happens when you initialize a repository? 
  -  Using "git init"A new git repository is created. A hidden folder named .git is added which contains the required files for version history.
  -  using git status command we can see the current history, we can see the .git hidden file using ls -a on terminal.

Q.1B.Why do you need to do it?
    - Without a repository, git cannot do anything. Git works only on git repositories.

Q.2A. How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? 
    -The staging area is a monitored area by git. It is not required to contain all files from the working directory. 
    -The files are not yet in the repository so you can still add/remove files from the staging area before making a commit.
    - It gives a pre-check function before commiting finaly into the git repository.

Q.2B.What value do you think it offers?
    - The option to create your set of files which you want to commit without having to add all new files. This way
    you have the option to make a split based on logical functionality
    - This gives the freedom to choose which files need to be be pushed from local working directory to GitHub repo.

Q.3.How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?
    The staging area gives you the possibility to decide which files should be part of the commit and which not.
    This way you can split changed files in logical change sets. 
    -We also differentiate the changes in Working directory, Staging area and Git Repository.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? 
    Work on conflicting changes, trying out new features, large code refactoring etc.
    This gives the possibility to change everything with multiple commits into the "feature branch" and then do a large merge to the "main branch".
    This will keep the history clean, but you can still use version control during development.
    - Detached head msg: Git was warning you that you were looking at commit that was not labled to branch name.

$Making a branch
Q.4.How would branches help?
    Split concerns. Safe to make big changes and test new things out.


$Visualizing the Diagrams
Q.5.How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?
 -By drawing the diagram you can directly see the relations between commits and branches. This makes it clear where to find specific changes.
 - we can create the new branch by using "git checkout -b new_branch_name" , this command combines 2 operations together i.e. git checkout new_branch_name and git branch new_branch_name


$Merge files
Q.6.What is the result of merging two branches together? 
    The result is one branch with changes from both branches.We can learn about git merge in manual file, on terminal type $man git merge

Q.7.Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?
    After a merge, all commits will be shown based on the timestamp in git log. This will show the commits from the two different branches running through each other.

Q.8.What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
    Automatic merging saves a lot of time compared to doing merges manually. 

Concepts Learned: 

git init,git add,git status,staging area,working directory, .git (repository directory containing details and metadata about the files)

Commands:

git add  |    Add a file to the staging area
git commit  |    Commit the files from the staging area to the repository 
git status  |    Show which files are in the staging area, and which files from the working directory are not part of the repository    
git diff  |    Git diff without arguments is comparing the working directory with the staging area
git diff --staged  |    Compare the staging area with the repository
git reset --hard  |    Undo all changes! There is no rollback for this, so be carefull!
git checkout master  |    Restore the "Head" to the latest check-in (this will be part of a later lesson/module)
git log --graph --oneline <branch1> <branch2>  |    Show a visual representation of the commit history within different branches
git checkout -b new_branch_name  |    Creates a new branch and do a checkout on this branch in one call instead of git branch new_branch_name and git checkout new_branch_name
git merge branch1 branch2  |    Merge two branches, branch2 get merged into branch1
git branch -d name  |    Remove the branch with the specified name
git show commitId  |    Show the changes made in this commit compared to the previous version. This is working even after merging.

